Add docs for high level privacy plugin overview (#764)
hyperledger/besu-docs: docs/Concepts/Privacy/Plugin-Privacy.md

---
description: Privacy Plugin
---

# Privacy Plugin
The Privacy Plugin allows users to define their own strategy for private transactions. 
This could take many forms, but ultimately it's down to the plugin implementor to provide besu with a private transaction when required.

!!! important

    Plugin privacy is an early access feature.

    Plugin interfaces are subject to change between releases. 

## Configuration

> Plugin Privacy must be enabled using `--Xprivacy-plugin-enabled` and a plugin must be registered that implements a `PrivacyPluginPayloadProvider`.

Reviewer: Hi @antonydenyer, is there a URL or additional info we can link to for `PrivacyPluginPayloadProvider`?

I'm unable to find anything in the [Plugin API docs](https://javadoc.io/doc/org.hyperledger.besu/plugin-api/latest/index.html)

Author: Not yet - waiting on https://github.com/hyperledger/besu/pull/2509 to be merged. 

https://github.com/hyperledger/besu/blob/5edb3b105ca31228fb8d4429d8866eb8298dc9f3/plugin-api/src/main/java/org/hyperledger/besu/plugin/services/privacy/PrivacyPluginPayloadProvider.java

Author: https://github.com/hyperledger/besu/issues/2102

## Using the payload provider interface

The privacy plugin must define the [privacy marker transaction (PMT)] payload.
Use the payload to retrieve the contents of the private transaction which could be a link to a location in
an enclave, or an encrypted form of the private payload itself.

Besu doesn't need to know how the private transaction is distributed, it just needs to know what the private transaction
for the PMT is.

### Sending transactions

When submitting a private transaction using [`eea_sendRawTransaction`](../../Reference/API-Methods.md#eea_sendrawtransaction),
the signed transaction must be sent to `0x000000000000000000000000000000000000007a` to indicate which
[privacy precompiled contract](../Privacy/Private-Transaction-Processing.md) is being used.

When submitting a private transaction using [`eea_sendRawTransaction`](../../Reference/API-Methods.md#eea_sendrawtransaction),
the signed transaction must be sent to `0x000000000000000000000000000000000000007a` to indicate the
[privacy precompiled contract](../Privacy/Private-Transaction-Processing.md) being used.

The transaction flow is as follows:

> 1. The JSON-RPC endpoint passes the private transaction to the private transaction handler (for example Tessera).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The JSON-RPC endpoint passes the private transaction to the private transaction manager (for example, Tessera).
```

> 2. The private transaction handler sends the private transaction to the privacy plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The private transaction manager sends the private transaction to the privacy plugin.
```

> 3. The plugin decides what data to store onchain in the payload, for example encrypt and serialize the private

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. The plugin decides what data to store on-chain in the payload, for example, the encrypted and serialized private
```

    transaction.
4. The plugin returns what needs to be stored in the payload for the PMT.
5. The private transaction handler creates a PMT for the private transaction, and propagates the PMT using devP2P in
    the same way as a public Ethereum transaction.

### Mining transactions

> When it comes to mining transactions the process happens in reverse to sending transactions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The process of mining transactions happens in reverse to sending transactions.
```

1. The Mainnet transaction processor processes the PMT in the same way as
    any other public transaction. On nodes containing the [privacy precompile contract](../../Reference/API-Methods.md#priv_getprivacyprecompileaddress)
    specified in the `to` attribute of the PMT, the Mainnet transaction processor passes the PMT to the privacy precompile contract.

   !!! note

       Nodes receiving the PMT that do not contain the specified privacy precompile
       contract will ignore the PMT.

1. The privacy precompile contract queries the plugin for the private transaction using the PMT.
1. The privacy precompile contract passes the private transaction to the private transaction

>     processor. The privacy group ID specifies the private world state to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    manager. The privacy group ID specifies the private world state to use.
```

> 1. The private transaction processor executes the transaction. The private transaction processor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The private transaction manager executes the transaction. The manager
```

1. The JSON-RPC endpoint passes the private transaction to the private transaction handler (for example Tessera).
2. The private transaction handler sends the private transaction to the privacy plugin.
3. The plugin decides what data to store onchain in the payload, for example encrypt and serialize the private
    transaction.
4. The plugin returns what needs to be stored in the payload for the PMT.
5. The private transaction handler creates a PMT for the private transaction, and propagates the PMT using devP2P in
    the same way as a public Ethereum transaction.

### Mining transactions

When it comes to mining transactions the process happens in reverse to sending transactions.

1. The Mainnet transaction processor processes the PMT in the same way as
    any other public transaction. On nodes containing the [privacy precompile contract](../../Reference/API-Methods.md#priv_getprivacyprecompileaddress)
    specified in the `to` attribute of the PMT, the Mainnet transaction processor passes the PMT to the privacy precompile contract.

   !!! note

       Nodes receiving the PMT that do not contain the specified privacy precompile
       contract will ignore the PMT.

> 1. The privacy precompile contract queries the plugin for the private transaction using the PMT.

Author: This is a mouthful, but can't think of a better way. 

The precompile passes the pmt to the plugin and wants the private transaction back for that pmt.
